[CF-3569] Add CP Flink SQL tutorial (flink/sql) (#434)
confluentinc/confluent-kubernetes-examples: flink/sql/README.md

> # CP Flink SQL on CFK (Day-2)

Reviewer: Rename the file to `README`?

> This playbook walks through the Confluent Platform Flink **SQL** Day-2 resources managed by

Reviewer: What do you mean by `Day-2` resources? What are _CPF SQL_ Day-0/1 resources?

Author: "Day-2" is the ops convention for managing objects inside an already-running CMF — Day-0/1 being the install of CFK, CMF, and the Flink operators.

    ```bash
    # Trial license (no secret needed):
    helm upgrade --install -f local.yaml cmf confluentinc/confluent-manager-for-apache-flink \
      --version 2.3.0 --namespace operator

    # Or, with your own Confluent Platform license:
    kubectl create secret generic cmf-license --from-file=license.txt -n operator
    helm upgrade --install -f local.yaml cmf confluentinc/confluent-manager-for-apache-flink \
      --version 2.3.0 --set license.secretRef=cmf-license --namespace operator
    ```
5. **Optional — only to reach the CMF REST API from your laptop.** The CFK operator talks to CMF
   in-cluster (via the CMFRestClass endpoint), so the chain below does not need this. To curl CMF
   yourself, add the local name to `/etc/hosts`:
    ```
    127.0.0.1       confluent-manager-for-apache-flink.operator.svc.cluster.local
    ```
   then port-forward in a **separate terminal** (the loop reconnects on drop and blocks that terminal):
    ```bash
    while true; do kubectl port-forward service/cmf-service 8080:80 -n operator; done
    ```

## Deploy CFK

Deploy CFK with both Day-2 flags so it reconciles the CMF and Flink SQL CRs:

> ```bash
> helm upgrade --install confluent-operator \
>   confluentinc/confluent-for-kubernetes --version 0.1718.10 \
>   --set enableCMFDay2Ops=true \
>   --set enableFlinkSQL=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm upgrade --install confluent-operator \
  confluentinc/confluent-for-kubernetes --version 0.1718.10 \
  --namespace operator \
  --set enableCMFDay2Ops=true \
  --set enableFlinkSQL=true
```

Author: Fixed.

# CP Flink SQL on CFK (Day-2)

This playbook walks through the Confluent Platform Flink **SQL** Day-2 resources managed by
CFK through the Confluent Manager for Apache Flink (CMF). You will build the full chain:

```
FlinkSecret + FlinkEnvironmentSecretMapping → FlinkKafkaCatalog → FlinkKafkaDatabase → FlinkComputePool → FlinkStatement
```

- **FlinkSecret** – syncs a Kubernetes Secret (Kafka / Schema Registry credentials) to CMF.
- **FlinkEnvironmentSecretMapping** – exposes that secret to an environment so catalogs and
  databases can reference it (by the mapping's name).
- **FlinkKafkaCatalog** – binds a Schema Registry instance for its databases.
- **FlinkKafkaDatabase** – a SQL database inside a catalog, mapped to a Kafka cluster.
- **FlinkComputePool** – the compute that runs statements (DEDICATED and SHARED variants).
- **FlinkStatement** – a single Flink SQL statement (a streaming job).

It uses the same minimal **mTLS** CMF setup as [`../mTLS`](../mTLS), plus a small Kafka +
Schema Registry for the catalog to connect to.

> **Preview.** Flink SQL is a preview feature in **CFK 3.3.0** (opt-in via `enableFlinkSQL`, nested

> > under `enableCMFDay2Ops`), paired with **CMF 2.3.0** and the runtime image

Reviewer 2: "nested under `enableCMFDay2Ops`" doesn't match the chart: in `confluent-for-kubernetes` 0.1718.10 these are two independent **top-level** values — the relationship is precedence (`enableCMFDay2Ops=false` disables the SQL controllers regardless of `enableFlinkSQL`), not nesting. Someone taking "nested" literally would write `--set enableCMFDay2Ops.enableFlinkSQL=true`, which fails — and it contradicts the flat `--set` flags in the Deploy CFK section below.

```suggestion
> **Preview.** Flink SQL is a preview feature in **CFK 3.3.0** (opt-in via the top-level
> `enableFlinkSQL` chart value, which takes effect only when `enableCMFDay2Ops` is also
> enabled), paired with **CMF 2.3.0** and the runtime image
```

Author: Reworded.

topic. `spec.statement` is immutable once running; set `spec.stopped: true` to stop without
deleting.

> Note: Reading a statement's results is not supported at the moment — a FlinkStatement writes to the sink's Kafka topic rather than returning rows; read that topic directly to inspect the output.

Reviewer: > read that topic directly to inspect the output

We should instead ask the user to access it via CMF API

Author: Good point , now incorporated !
